RHDEVDOCS-4124 Operator displays Trigger metrics in devconsole (#46295)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-enabling-monitoring-of-event-listeners-for-triggers-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *cicd/pipelines/creating-applications-with-cicd-pipelines.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enabling-monitoring-of-event-listeners-for-triggers-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= Enabling monitoring of event listeners for Triggers for user-defined projects

> As a cluster administrator, to gather event listener metrics for the `Triggers` service in a user-defined project and display them in the {product-title} web console, you can create a service monitor for each event listener. On receiving a HTTP request, event listeners for the `Triggers` service return three metrics -- `http_duration_seconds`, `event_count`, and `triggered_resources`.

Reviewer: @savitaashture only the metrics name `triggered_resources` is enough or we need to add `eventlistener_triggered_resources`?

Author: I also had the same doubt - there was a mismatch between the text and the screenshot in Savita's [draft document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uumFX8iHEGjSuPjMdNuB4x3ueyuXrOR2TKhLUTXo--0/edit#heading=h.n09pyxcib1k7).

Reviewer 2: Oh sorry yes its `eventlistener_triggered_resources` the one from screenshot 
For reference [follow](https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/blob/main/docs/eventlisteners.md#configuring-metrics-for-eventlisteners)

Reviewer: what about `http_duration_seconds` and `event_count`?

Reviewer 2: yes for all `eventlistener_` is prefixed 
I have updated [draft doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uumFX8iHEGjSuPjMdNuB4x3ueyuXrOR2TKhLUTXo--0/edit#) and also to follow from upstream doc here is the [reference](https://github.com/tektoncd/triggers/blob/main/docs/eventlisteners.md#configuring-metrics-for-eventlisteners)

.Prerequisites

* You have logged in to the {product-title} web console.
* You have installed the {pipelines-title} Operator.

> * You have enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.

Reviewer: @sounix000 Do we need to provide any link reference here?

Author: We cannot provide direct inline links due to limitations set by the larger OpenShift docs org. I have given one link in the **Additional resources** section immediately after the procedure, and some other relevant links are in the bigger Additional resources section at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: Ack

// This module is included in the following assembly:
//
// *cicd/pipelines/creating-applications-with-cicd-pipelines.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="enabling-monitoring-of-event-listeners-for-triggers-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]

> = Optional: Enabling monitoring of event listeners for Triggers for user-defined projects

Reviewer 3: @michaelryanpeter You mentioned using "Optional" in today's OpenShift docs team meeting. Do you have any suggestions or comments on this instance?
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CH-K3UAuAGbeqp0W-9AHH2v7OrCQawsxt4fiDKLj86Q/edit?disco=AAAAakoYDio

Reviewer 3: - Using "optional" in titles is a complex issue that has come up for discussion recently.
- Red Hat seems to prefer not using Optional in titles this way. 
- If this optional module is the exception to a series of required tasks in an assembly, let's find a better way to make that obvious.  

```suggestion
= Enabling monitoring of event listeners for Triggers for user-defined projects
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, to gather event listener metrics for Triggers in a user-defined project and display them in the web console, you can create a service monitor for each event listener. On receiving a HTTP request, event listeners for Triggers return three metrics -- `http_duration_seconds`, `event_count`, and `triggered_resources`.
```

Reviewer 4: The consensus from the OpenShift documentation team is that using "optional" in a heading creates problems for content reuse. As @rolfedh mentioned, explaining the conditional context of the procedure in the abstract is considered a best practice.

As a cluster administrator, to gather event listener metrics for Triggers in a user-defined project and display them in the {product-title} web console, you can create a service monitor for each event listener. On receiving a HTTP request, event listeners for Triggers return three metrics -- `http_duration_seconds`, `event_count`, and `triggered_resources`.

> 

Reviewer 5: I think it should be "triggers", lowercase? 
see https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-formatting

Reviewer 3: When I reviewed the `op*.adoc` files in openshift-docs, I noticed that "Triggers" was the dominant usage. It seems to be a short name for "Tekton Triggers," which is "a Kubernetes Custom Resource Definition (CRD) controller."

Reviewer 3: - The instances of "Triggers" in this document all seem to be proper nouns that reference this controller service, not `Trigger` resources. 
- Changing "Triggers" to lower-case might cause confusion. A reader might interpret "triggers" as something that triggers an event, not as the controller or resource.
Therefore, I recommend leaving "Triggers" unchanged.
@abrennan89 WDYT?

> On receiving a HTTP request, event listeners for Triggers return three metrics -- `http_duration_seconds`, `event_count`, and `triggered_resources`. Cluster administrators can configure the monitoring of event listener metrics for Triggers in a user-defined project. When configured, users and administrators can view the metrics in the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer 3: From the checklist: "Check for places where `OpenShift` should be `{product-title}`"
How about:
```suggestion
On receiving a HTTP request, event listeners for Triggers return three metrics -- `http_duration_seconds`, `event_count`, and `triggered_resources`. Cluster administrators can configure the monitoring of event listener metrics for Triggers in a user-defined project. When configured, users and administrators can view the metrics in the {product-title} web console.
```
or
```suggestion
On receiving a HTTP request, event listeners for Triggers return three metrics -- `http_duration_seconds`, `event_count`, and `triggered_resources`. Cluster administrators can configure the monitoring of event listener metrics for Triggers in a user-defined project. When configured, users and administrators can view the metrics in the web console.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, to gather event listener metrics for Triggers in a user-defined project and display them in the web console, you can create a service monitor for each event listener. On receiving a HTTP request, event listeners for Triggers return three metrics -- `http_duration_seconds`, `event_count`, and `triggered_resources`.
```

Reviewer 3: In response to removing "Optional:" from the title, please consider this ^^ alteration of the abstract, which puts the user story and condition first.

[discrete]

> .Prerequisites

Reviewer 5: Not sure why make these discrete headings? I don't think it's required.

Reviewer 3: To learn more, I've searched openshift-docs and looked at:

- https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#discrete-headings
- https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/blocks/discrete-headings/

There are many instances of these `[discrete]` attributes above block headings (e.g., `.Prerequisites`) in openshift-docs. However, they seem unnecessary because asciidoc already excludes block headings from TOCs and such. 
It seems that this attribute only affects section titles (e.g., `== This is a section title`) that you want to make more discrete.

* Install the {pipelines-title} Operator.

> * Enable monitoring for user-defined projects.

Reviewer 5: I think web console should be a prerequisite here? e.g.
```
You have logged in to the {product-title} web console.
```

> * Install the {pipelines-title} Operator.
> * Enable monitoring for user-defined projects.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* You have installed the {pipelines-title} Operator.
* You have enabled monitoring for user-defined projects.
```

[discrete]
.Procedure

> . For each event listener, create a service monitor. For example, to view the metrics for the `github-listener` event listener in the `test` namespace, create the following service monitor:
> +
> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 3: Should they create exactly the service monitor shown, or is this just one possible example? If it is an example, how about saying:
```suggestion
. For each event listener, create a service monitor. For example, to view the metrics for the `github-listener` event listener in the `test` namespace, create a service monitor. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
```
OR
```suggestion
. For each event listener, create a service monitor. For example, to view the metrics for the `github-listener` event listener in the `test` namespace, create a service monitor.
+
.Example service monitor
[source,yaml]
```

----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: EventListener
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: Triggers
    eventlistener: github-listener
  annotations: 
    networkoperator.openshift.io/ignore-errors: ""
  name: el-monitor
  namespace: test
spec:
  endpoints: 
    - interval: 10s
      port: http-metrics
  jobLabel: name
  namespaceSelector: 
    matchNames:
      - test
  selector:
    matchLabels:  
      app.kubernetes.io/managed-by: EventListener
      app.kubernetes.io/part-of: Triggers
      eventlistener: github-listener
...
----
. Test the service monitor by sending a request to the event listener. For example, push an empty commit:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ git commit -m "empty-commit" --allow-empty && git push origin main
----

> . On the OpenShift web console, navigate to **Administrator** -> **Observe** -> **Metrics**.

Reviewer 3: Same here.
